# Running

New York Road Runners holds around two dozen races annually in New York City, serving runners of all ages across distances from 200m all the way to the marathon.  I participated in dozens of races with them over the course of 7 years and I observed something to be true time and time again: my race corrals (seeded by previous race times) always seemed to be populated mostly by other competitive women in their 20s and 30s and men in their mid 40s (who we lovingly referred to as "competitive dads").  Is my most natural adversary the competitive dad?  It seems reasonable to assume that a fit 20-something woman and a fit 40-something man would perform at about the same level.  Of course, my observation is completely anectdotal and to use it to support my assumption is irresponsible, as I have no insight into the distribution of different genders and age groups in other corrals (or how participants in NYRR races may or may not reflect characteristics of the general running community).  Hypothesis testing to the rescue!

Question: Which AG (age-gender) groups are most competitive with each other?  That is, for a given distance, which AG groups produce the most similar results?  Does this change depending on the distance being examined.  For example, it may be true that women in the 25-34 AG group are on average faster than men in the 40-49 AG group in the marathon, but the opposite may be true in the mile.

Data: NYRR.org has data for all races going back to the early 2000s.  For each race result, name, distance, time, age, place, and AG group are listed.  I would like to study runners who are more likely to train for races, so I will come up with some way of narrowing down the data to that subset and then perform my hypothesis test.  Ideas include only using runners who have run at least 6 races with NYRR in a year and have placed in the top half of each of those races.
